README.md, before:

# npm-consider

Check npm package dependencies size, licenses and impact on your package before installing it 🤔

![npm-consider](https://i.imgur.com/eAQPbHL.gif)

If you like it, please, ⭐️ this repo!

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/delfrrr/npm-consider.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/delfrrr/npm-consider)


## Features

* calculate dependencies size recursively
* show dependencies license policy for linking
* calculates impact on current package
* show a full dependency graph
* analyses packages without downloading it
* supports yarn
* analyzes local package
* provides continuous integration (CI) mode


## Installing

```
npm install -g npm-consider
```
**Note:** this tool is more useful when your colleagues also use it 😉
## Usage

**Add new dependency**

`npm-consider` has similar arguments as `npm install`

```
npm-consider install --save express
```
The command recursively requests packages info from npm and builds dependencies graph. Size of the package determined via `HEAD` request to `tarball` download URL.

**Analyze local package**

When called without arguments in package directory it builds a dependency graph and calculates metrics for local package

```
npm-consider install
```

**Using for automation and continuous integration**

You can specify maximum values of size and number as well as allowed license types in `config` of your `package.json`.

```
"config": {
  "maxPackagesNumber": 100,
  "maxSizeBites": 840400,
  "allowedLicenseTypes": [
    "permissive",
    "publicDomain",
    "uncategorized"
  ]
}
```

Once provided you can call

```
npm-consider install --test
```

![npm-consider](https://i.imgur.com/eo4HbDb.gif)

If all limits are satisfied command will exit with `code=0`; otherwise `code=1`.

Note: in this mode, `npm-consider` will not call `npm install` or `yarn install`.

Supported properties:

 * `maxPackagesNumber` max number of `npm` dependencies incuding [transitive dependencies](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transitive_dependency)
 * `maxSizeBites` max size of downloaded packages in bites
 * `allowedLicenseTypes` what types of dependency licenses are accpetable for the package

Supported types are `publicDomain`, `permissive`, `weaklyProtective`, `protective`, `networkProtective`, `uncategorized`.
If you are not sure which license types are appropriate [check this artice](https://medium.com/@vovabilonenko/licenses-of-npm-dependencies-bacaa00c8c65).

### Usage with yarn

If the project contains `yarn.lock` file, then `npm-consider` will do `yarn add` with corresponding options.

### Licence type

`npm-consider` calculates license type for every dependency. The type defines license policy for [linking as a librtary](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Library_(computing)#Linking). Data collected from [Comparison of free and open-source software licenses](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_free_and_open-source_software_licenses) on Wikipedia.

 * `Public Domain` and `Permissive` license allows you to do anything except sue the author
 * `Weakly Protective` license have a restriction to how can it be linked and combined with other licenses
 * `Protective` or *Copyleft* dependency license requires a dependent module to have a free license, which prevents it from being proprietary
 * `Network Protective` same as *Protective* but also triggers with network interaction
 * `Uncategorized` means that license was not found in a package info or was not categorised in terms of linking; feel free to contribute to license categorisation;

**Note:** that even permissive licenses have some restrictions. Check the following slide and article to learn about license compatibility:

![](https://www.dwheeler.com/essays/floss-license-slide-image.png)

[The Free-Libre / Open Source Software (FLOSS) License Slide](https://www.dwheeler.com/essays/floss-license-slide.html)

### Menu options


* **Install** runs `npm install` with the same arguments
* **Impact** takes onto account already installed dependencies and shows relative impact. It behaves differently, depending on `--save` or `--save-dev` option. The second one takes into account already installed `dependencies` and `devDepenedencies`.
* **Details** prints dependencies graph
* **Skip** cancels `npm install`; no changes in your project will apply.

Commit message:

- Enhancement: Add Parity licenses to `networkProtective` - Enhancement: Add `useOrModifyProtective` category with licenses

README.md, after:

# npm-consider

Check npm package dependencies size, licenses and impact on your package before installing it 🤔

![npm-consider](https://i.imgur.com/eAQPbHL.gif)

If you like it, please, ⭐️ this repo!

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/delfrrr/npm-consider.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/delfrrr/npm-consider)


## Features

* calculate dependencies size recursively
* show dependencies license policy for linking
* calculates impact on current package
* show a full dependency graph
* analyses packages without downloading it
* supports yarn
* analyzes local package
* provides continuous integration (CI) mode


## Installing

```
npm install -g npm-consider
```
**Note:** this tool is more useful when your colleagues also use it 😉
## Usage

**Add new dependency**

`npm-consider` has similar arguments as `npm install`

```
npm-consider install --save express
```
The command recursively requests packages info from npm and builds dependencies graph. Size of the package determined via `HEAD` request to `tarball` download URL.

**Analyze local package**

When called without arguments in package directory it builds a dependency graph and calculates metrics for local package

```
npm-consider install
```

**Using for automation and continuous integration**

You can specify maximum values of size and number as well as allowed license types in `config` of your `package.json`.

```
"config": {
  "maxPackagesNumber": 100,
  "maxSizeBites": 840400,
  "allowedLicenseTypes": [
    "permissive",
    "publicDomain",
    "uncategorized"
  ]
}
```

Once provided you can call

```
npm-consider install --test
```

![npm-consider](https://i.imgur.com/eo4HbDb.gif)

If all limits are satisfied command will exit with `code=0`; otherwise `code=1`.

Note: in this mode, `npm-consider` will not call `npm install` or `yarn install`.

Supported properties:

 * `maxPackagesNumber` max number of `npm` dependencies incuding [transitive dependencies](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transitive_dependency)
 * `maxSizeBites` max size of downloaded packages in bites
 * `allowedLicenseTypes` what types of dependency licenses are accpetable for the package

Supported types are `publicDomain`, `permissive`, `weaklyProtective`, `protective`, `networkProtective`, `useOrModifyProtective`, `uncategorized`.
If you are not sure which license types are appropriate [check this artice](https://medium.com/@vovabilonenko/licenses-of-npm-dependencies-bacaa00c8c65).

Note that `networkProtective` now includes the Parity licenses which refer to
publishing "through a freely accessible distribution system widely used for
similar source code".

`useOrModifyProtective` was later added to categorize those which can only be
used under certain conditions beyond any sharing requirements (e.g.,
non-commercial use only and/or not being permitted to modify the code).

### Usage with yarn

If the project contains `yarn.lock` file, then `npm-consider` will do `yarn add` with corresponding options.

### Licence type

`npm-consider` calculates license type for every dependency. The type defines license policy for [linking as a librtary](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Library_(computing)#Linking). Data collected from [Comparison of free and open-source software licenses](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_free_and_open-source_software_licenses) on Wikipedia.

 * `Public Domain` and `Permissive` license allows you to do anything except sue the author
 * `Weakly Protective` license have a restriction to how can it be linked and combined with other licenses
 * `Protective` or *Copyleft* dependency license requires a dependent module to have a free license, which prevents it from being proprietary
 * `Network Protective` same as *Protective* but also triggers with network interaction
 * `Uncategorized` means that license was not found in a package info or was not categorised in terms of linking; feel free to contribute to license categorisation;

**Note:** that even permissive licenses have some restrictions. Check the following slide and article to learn about license compatibility:

![](https://www.dwheeler.com/essays/floss-license-slide-image.png)

[The Free-Libre / Open Source Software (FLOSS) License Slide](https://www.dwheeler.com/essays/floss-license-slide.html)

### Menu options


* **Install** runs `npm install` with the same arguments
* **Impact** takes onto account already installed dependencies and shows relative impact. It behaves differently, depending on `--save` or `--save-dev` option. The second one takes into account already installed `dependencies` and `devDepenedencies`.
* **Details** prints dependencies graph
* **Skip** cancels `npm install`; no changes in your project will apply.
